Description:


 Position:  Assistant Professor of Biochemistry


 Type: Tenure-track, Probationary

 Academic Year: 2024-2025

 Available: Fall 2024


 Location:  Chemistry and Biochemistry

 Natural Sciences and Mathematics and Engineering

 California State University, Bakersfield

 9001 Stockdale Highway

 Bakersfield, CA  93311-1099


 Contact: Dr. Jesse Bergkamp

 Search Committee Chair

 Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry

 chemistry@csub.edu


 Deadline: Applications, including letters of recommendation, are due October 2, 2023.  Job will remain open until filled.


 University Background: CSU Bakersfield, founded in 1970, is a regional, comprehensive university serving the southern San Joaquin Valley of California. CSU Bakersfield’s service area covers nearly 25,000 square miles and is home to a socially and ethnically diverse population of over 11,000 students. CSU Bakersfield is the only four-year degree granting institution within a 100-mile radius. Due to this, CSU Bakersfield has a vital role in educational obtainment, economic development, and quality of life within the region.


 The accolades CSU Bakersfield has received include Third Way’s #5 Most Economic Mobility Index (2022), Washington Monthly’s #13 Best Bang for the Buck for Western Colleges and #26 Best Master’s University (2022), Best Value Schools’ #21 Most Affordable 4-Year Colleges (2022), and US News and World Report’s #25 Top Public School in the West (2022).


 CSU Bakersfield serves 9,800 undergraduate students and 1,400 graduate, credential, and post-baccalaureate students.  63.5% of CSU Bakersfield’s students are Hispanic/Latinx, 21.5% are Caucasian, 7.1% are Asian, 4.9% are African-American, 2.3% are multiracial, 0.5% are American Indian/Alaskan Native, and 0.2% are Hawaiian/Pacific Islander.  CSU Bakersfield is a federally designated Hispanic Serving Institution (HSI).


 Commitment to Diversity: The Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry within the School of Natural Sciences and Mathematics and Engineering at CSU Bakersfield is committed to academic and inclusive excellence and diversity within the faculty, staff, and student body.


 School Information: The School of Natural Sciences, Mathematics, and Engineering currently houses seven departments. Visit the web page at https://www.csub.edu/nsme for additional information about the School's programs and the area.


 Department Information: The Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry currently consists of seven tenure track faculty, seven full time lecturers and over 100 active majors. The department offers the ACS-approved BS degree in Chemistry, BS in Biochemistry as well as concentrations in Food Science, Management and Marketing, and Occupational Safety and Health Management. The department has strong involvement in general education and service courses for related majors.


 Position Description: Full time, tenure track position to: a) teach undergraduate lecture/laboratory biochemistry courses to majors and non­majors (other teaching assignments will depend upon applicant's background); b) engage in independent, publishable research and scholarly activities with undergraduate students; and c) provide professionally related service to the department, school, university, and community.


 Minimum Qualifications:

 •      Demonstrated commitment to teaching undergraduates from diverse socioeconomic, cultural, and academic backgrounds, including first-generation students.

 •      Ph.D. in biochemistry or related discipline is required and must be completed by the start of appointment. Evidence of potential to successfully conduct independent research in area of expertise with undergraduate students. Demonstrated commitment to teaching undergraduates from diverse socioeconomic, cultural, and academic backgrounds, including first-generation students.


 Preferred Qualifications:

 •      University teaching experience and/or postdoctoral experience is strongly desired, especially in area of expertise.


 Rank and Salary:

 •      Assistant Professor: salary based on qualifications and experience.

 Salary range is $72,000 to $83,000, commensurate with experience and qualifications. Research startup funds will be available. The CSU offers a generous benefits package including health, dental, vision, parental leave, retirement, and other benefits.


 Application:

 •      Please include a statement of contribution to diversity, equity and inclusion.  The statement should include information on how the applicant currently or will potentially promote diversity, equity and inclusion through their teaching, research and service at CSU Bakersfield.

 •      Email a cover letter, CV, statement of teaching philosophy, research plans, and three letters of recommendation to chemistry@csub.edu. Include a statement about fostering an inclusive classroom in your cover letter or teaching philosophy. Letters of recommendation may be sent separately from the rest of the application. Incomplete applications may not be considered.


 Background Check: A background check (including a criminal records check) must be completed satisfactorily before any candidate can be offered a position with the CSU. Failure to satisfactorily complete the background check may affect the application status of applicants or continued employment of current CSU employees who apply for the position.


 Out of State Employment: Per CSU-wide policy, all faculty who will begin initial employment (or return from a 12-month break in service) on or after January 1, 2022, are required to perform their work from within the State of California.  Faculty assignments include in-person duties that must be performed in-person at the assigned location.


 Mandated Reporter: The person holding this position is considered a "mandated reporter" under the California Child Abuse and Neglect Reporting Act and is required to comply with the requirements set forth in CSU Executive Order 1083 as a condition of employment.


 Clery Act:  CSUB's annual crime report includes statistics for the previous three years concerning reported crimes that occurred on campus, in certain off-campus centers, such as our Antelope Valley Satellite Campus and on property within, or immediately adjacent to and accessible from CSUB. The report also includes policies concerning security on campus, such as alcohol and drug use, crime prevention, reporting crimes, sexual assault, and other subjects. Additionally, a daily log of offenses is maintained and can be reviewed at the front desk of the Department of Public Safety. You can obtain a copy of the annual report by contacting the Department of Public Safety/University Police at (661) 654-2111 or by logging on to their website at: https://www.csub.edu/compliance/Clery.


 EEO Statement:  CSUB is committed to Equal Employment Opportunity. Applicants will be considered without regard to gender, race, age, color, religion, national origin, sexual orientation, marital status, disability or covered veterans’ status.